# Change++ Fall 2024 Coding Challenge

Author: Rachel Koh Huiqi | [Email](rachel.koh@vanderbilt.edu)

## Description

[VIDEO!!!!](assets/countries-trivia.mov)

## The Challenge

Build a geography trivia game web app. Full challenge [here](challenge.md).

## Running the Program

Make sure you have the code downloaded in your preferred location on your local machine. This program runs on `http://localhost:3000/` and `http://localhost:3001/` by default. Navigate into the folder where you downloaded/cloned this code, then follow these instructions to run the code:

##

### Back-end

This was written with Javascript and Node.js.

Navigate into the `backend` folder:

```
cd backend/
```

Once in the `backend` folder, install or make sure you have `node` installed:

```
npm install
```

Now run the following command to start the server:

```
npm run start
```

### Front-end

This was written with Javascript and React.

Navigate into the `frontend` folder:

```
cd frontend/
```

Again, get `node` installed:

```
npm install
```

Now run the following command to start the server:

```
npm run start
```

##

Congratulations! The code is now runnning. In order to play the game, navigate to http://localhost:3001/ in your browser.

## Gameplay

When the game loads, the player is provided with the following clues that describe an unknown country:

- Its capital city
- Some fun statistics about the country
- The country's flag

The player then, as you may expect, guesses which country these clues point towards by keying in their guess and hitting the `Guess` button. The game then renders a fun little message to the screen letting the player know if they got it right.

### Stuck? Get a Hint!

The hint button located under the guess form allows the user to pull an additional hint about the country that they are guessing. The first time this button is pressed, the hint will tell the user the region in which this country is located. The user may then obtain additional hints about the language(s) spoken by residents in this country by requesting additional hints.

If all the hints have been exhausted, the game informs the user of this and does not make any comment about the user's geographical knowledge.

## The API

This game relies on the [RestCountries API](https://restcountries.com/), and only considers countries whose independent status are set to true here. The aim of this is to make the game more playable for those of us who did not grow up on GeoGuessr.

> Note: The author is not affliated with this API. The designation of any invididual country's status of independence as defined here do not necessarily reflect the author's views.

## If I Had A Time-turner...

...I would make the game timed. So creative, please clap.

Ahem. I mean, I would make [Jeopardy](https://www.jeopardy.com/) but like. Countries.

So. This was the original idea for this project -- I would implement this as a Jeopardy board, say a 6x5 board with a fixed amount of points written on each small square. Each vertical column on the board represents a category of clues (e.g. capital, flag, coat of arms, official language, national monument), and there would be 6 squares in each column. Clues vary in difficulty and are arranged from easiest to hardest going down the board.

Clicking a square would display the appropriate clue for that category, and the user would then guess the country referenced by that clue. If they get it right, they earn the specified number of points for that square. If they get it wrong, they don't. We could potentially also make this a multiplayer game, but I know delusion when I see it in the mirror.

### Additional Things I Would Add:

#### Timers!

What fun is a game if it doesn't invoke your anxiety? I'd set a time limit for each guess. If a player fails to guess the country in the time limit, they earn zero points.

#### Difficulty Levels

Implements all of the above to whichever extent the user desires. I would like to implement this on some loading screen for the game.

#### Aesthetics

Colors. Fonts. Sizes. Formats. This project truly makes me feel like a CS major because it's so ugly. But I can fix that (no really I can) if I had the time to experiment with Mantine or something.

## Reflection

This was a fun first foray into webdev. I had never experimented with React, Node, or JavaScript prior to this project, so it was fun (but incredibly frustrating) to play around with the code and attempt to wrangle it into subservience. I learned a lot from the experience, and I thank the author(s) of this challenge for creating it.

## Additional Notes

Honestly, I'm surprised you're still reading. But since you really like listening to me yap...

### Political Correctness

ChatGPT is not the most politically correct thing to use to describe a country, especially since this game is implemented in English (which biases its database towards English-speaking countries).

The author is not responsible for the text generated by this model. However, this is a preemptive apology if the text generated by OpenAI in this game is offensive, insensitive, or inaccurate in any manner. It is never the intention of the author to cause discomfort, to offend, or to discriminate against any individual regardless of their background. Please direct all complaints to OpenAI and their training practices.
